Good morning.
We are finishing up the year.
This is the last Sunday of 2025.
All right.
And before we get into 2026, though, it's a wonderful opportunity to take a look back and to remember some things, to think about this year.
As I was listening to the scripture read from the back there, I was thinking to myself,
The Israelite people in this moment in time, the reading of Joshua 4, what's really happening there is they've been through the wilderness for 40 years, right?
And then they finally get into the Promised Land, but they're not quite in yet.
They're near it or they're close, but they're not quite there.
And there's any number of ways they could tell their own story.
Right?
They could have looked back and said, boy, God nearly left us for dead.
We almost died back there, but we eked our way through it.
And now here we are.
This, of course, is not how they tell their own story.
They did nearly die back there, but they told a story of faithfulness.
As you think about your own year 2025, like there are any number of ways you can tell your own story.
You can think back over the course of this year and you might be tempted to say, I almost died back there.
Or you can tell the story of God's faithfulness in your life too.
The question is, how are you going to tell your own story?
The time we're in right now, this period that sits right before the new year and it's after Christmas,
might be called a liminal space.
A liminal space is simply the space that is like, it's kind of your front door, but it's sort of in the house.
It's sort of out of the house.
It's not clear.
It's a transition space.
You have no doubt been through a transition or a liminal space any number of times in your life.
If you, for example, graduated from high school, but you're not yet in college,
That's a liminal space.
If you've moved from one city to another and you've moved, but you're not quite there yet, that is definitely a liminal space.
If, like me, when you, well, I was a junior in high school, moving my senior year to another state, I experienced a liminal space in life where you can do some reflection and you can ask interesting questions.
such as, well, who was I for the last three years of high school?
Who am I?
And then the better question yet is, who do I want to be?
In what's about to happen here?
In this senior year, I've got new friends and a new place.
I can totally reinvent myself.
Have you experienced this before?
You probably have.
Maybe if you're new to the area, it's moving here.
Who do you want to be in Northern Virginia that you weren't in South Dakota or wherever you're coming from?
That's a liminal space.
And this is precisely where the people find themselves in Joshua 4.
Let's go ahead and read some of this again.
We won't read the whole thing.
But if we skip kind of toward the end of this passage, we see the following.
We see in verse five, Joshua says to them, Pass on before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of the Jordan and take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, that this may be a sign among you.
When your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean to you?
Then you shall tell them.
Tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord.
When it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off.
So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial forever.
These are memory stones.
Apparently they're pretty big, big enough anyway, to like warrant someone walking by seeing the 12 stones and asking,
That means what's happening here with these 12 huge stones.
And then someone says, well, that was when we first got here.
We traversed 40 years through the desert.
Half of us or more died along the way.
And it took a whole generation, but then God saw fit to part the waters.
One more time, this time the Jordan,
to allow us to walk through and to bring us into the promised land.
And it was the beginning of our life together.
And it's all memorialized in these 12 big stones.
I'm going to imagine that you have some memorials in your house, whether you realize it or not.
Nick Max, that sit around maybe your living room or your kitchen, somewhere in your home,
sits something that when you look at it, you remember something.
For me, it's a lot of things, actually, but one, there's a piece of art that sits on the wall of my living room, and it's a piece of art that we bought in 2007 on a trip to Europe before we ever had kids, before the world changed dramatically, and we were in Florence, and we bought this piece of art to remind us of this beautiful trip that we had together.
Or Kendall every year.
She buys ornaments for every one of our kids.
And the ornament has the date on it or the year on it.
And she's very thoughtful with these, and she buys something that has to do with the significance of that year for that child.
And so I can imagine 20 years from now, as those children are in their 30s, and they're picking up these ornaments to put them on their tree, and they're remembering, oh, this was the year I graduated from high school, or this was the year.
that I was nine years old and I happened to love soccer and I loved singing and playing the drums.
And so these are memorials.
We remember things.
And it's important to remember, right?
The question is, I'm a pastor and you're in a church.
And so I'm supposed to draw you into the things of faith.
And so the question is, do you have any memorials
to the faith journey that you've been on.
Like what are those things in your house or in your office?
Maybe it's in your Bible that like reminds you, when you see it, you say to yourself, oh yeah, this was the time that God showed up in this really powerful way and I don't want to forget it.
The scriptures are quite clear that we are supposed to remember.
We are not to forget.
It's actually more prevalent than I even thought it was.
And so I want to share with you a number of the passages where God commands us to remember and let this be a warning shot that you should leave this place remembering and thinking back over the course of your year, the ways in which your life has been shaped
But again, this being a church and all, like the way in which God has showed up in your life in 2025, that you are not going to forget.
It starts in Exodus 13.
Moses says to the people, remember this day in which you came out from Egypt out of the house of slavery for by a strong hand, the Lord brought you out from this place.
or in Deuteronomy 4-9, only take care and keep your soul diligently lest you forget the things that your eyes have seen and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life.
Make them known to your children and your children's children.
Don't forget, but don't even let your kids forget and don't let their kids forget the kinds of things that God has done in your life and in your ancestors' lives.
or Deuteronomy 8, 2, you shall remember the whole way that the Lord, your God, has led you these 40 years in the wilderness that He might humble you, testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandment or not.
Moving forward in Scripture, Joshua now, this is our passage for the day, 4, 6 to 7.
This may be a sign among you when your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean?
You shall say to them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant.
So these stones shall be to the people of Israel, a memorial.
They'll help you remember, or first chronicles, 1612.
Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles and his judgments that he uttered.
Psalm 77, I will remember the deeds of the Lord.
Yes, I will remember.
Your wonders of old, Psalm 103, 2, bless the Lord, O my soul, and don't forget all of the things that he has done.
Psalm 105, remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles and the judgments he uttered.
Psalm 143, I remember the days of old.
I meditate on all that you've done.
I ponder the work of your hand.
and Isaiah 46-9.
Remember the former things of old.
Remember the former things.
For I am God and there is no other.
I am God and there is none like me.
The call to remember is appropriate again at this time in the year as we're about to head into 2026 and you're about to make some New Year's resolutions
It's probably a good idea to look back and ask, how did I do this year?
How did those resolutions go this year?
Or maybe you're thinking to yourself, you know what?
It's been an awful year.
It's been super tough.
It sure feels like I'm out here all alone.
I would encourage you to ask of God and of yourself.
Is that really true of the whole year, this whole year, 2026?
Have you been alone all that time?
Or are you just in a season of darkness that's shown up for a short time and it too shall pass?
As many of you know, I took a sabbatical this summer and it was a wonderful thing.
One of the things I got to do on my sabbatical was to spend a little time alone.
And as I spent time alone, I began to think back on my own past and where I've come from.
and where I'm going to, a liminal space of its own kind, actually.
And as I began to think back, there were some really tough years, and there was one in particular, 2012, that I won't go into detail with, but it was the year I was graduating with a PhD, but I was unable to find a job in this year.
And I had worked very hard to that point, and I felt abandoned and alone.
I felt abandoned by God.
And I had this moment that I remember very distinctly where I'm shouting out to God and I'm saying, God, if you are real, I need you to show up now in a powerful way.
That moment stuck with me for years.
But for some reason, I forgot.
I forgot how it got answered.
And I want to make sure you know how it got answered.
You see, I was looking back, we used to keep a blog, back when blogs were things.
And it was, sure enough, still on the internet.
So I found it.
And I remembered back to the moment where I had shouted at God and said, like, I need you.
And then I started reading the blog posts around that time.
And what I came to realize was that within two weeks, I had
taken like a mini sabbatical or like a day retreat where God showed up in a really, really powerful way.
And it was one of these moments of life where like I knew that God was present in that moment, not because like I felt, you know, the good feelings.
I did sort of, but because something like truly miraculous happened.
Like there was a miracle in my life.
where someone used the exact phrase and the words and the whole thing that I had been doing that day and they gave it back to me in a way that I thought, that's impossible.
How do you know this?
Were you following me?
Were you snooping in on what I was doing?
And I remember feeling a sense of, this is gonna be okay.
Things are going to be okay.
And then two weeks after that, I got a call and I got an interview
And I got a job.
And I remember thinking, okay, I feel alone.
I feel abandoned, but that's not the whole story.
And I got his presence still.
And I just needed to remember.
And so on the sabbatical, as I was digging through my own past, I asked myself, how could you forget?
How could you forget?
And I guess I'm here to ask you, is there something in your life where God has shown up in like a really powerful way?
Maybe it is this year, but maybe it's deeper than that.
And you've somehow forgotten, you know, encourage you as the Scriptures do over and over and over again.
Remember, remember lest you forget.
Our brains are unfortunately wired to remember the bad things much more easily than the good things.
The bad things in life are like Velcro and they just kind of stick and then the good things are often like Teflon and they just slide right off and they're easily forgotten.
And it's why we need to build memorials.
It's why we need to put things around our house to remind us of the good things
of life, yes, but the good things that God has done in our lives.
I would encourage you not to leave today, not to allow the sun to go down today without remembering something, something good that God has done in your life.
If you want to be a person of faith, you must remember God's faithfulness to you.
If you want to be a person of joy, you must remember
the joy in your life.
If you want to be a person of hope, somebody who's hopeful about what's coming, you must be a person who remembers the reasons for hope.
In some ways, it all comes back to Mary and her magnifying glass from a few sermons ago.
It's a question of what am I going to put my magnifying glass over in this last year or in my life?
How am I going to tell the story of my life?
Am I going to tell the story where all these bad things just keep happening to me and it's a bad life?
Or am I going to put the magnifying glass over the ways in which God has been faithful in my life again and again and again?
Perhaps the most important passage on memory comes to us from Luke 22, 19.
Jesus himself reminds us to remember he took bread
And when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them saying, this is my body, which is given for you.
And then he says, what's etched right there, do this in remembrance of me.
Don't forget.
Remember me.
Remember what I've done.
Remember how I've poured out my life for your life.
Today, I come bearing gifts.
The gift is actually a recycled gift.
It's the ones you gave me.
For the last week, I've been asking you for photos.
And the photos are a snapshot of the life of Southrun Baptist Church over the course of 2025.
Before I show you these things, though, to kind of help jog your memory
of where we've been as a church this year, I thought I'd go through a litany of things that we've done, where we've built bonds together, where you and I have shown up and built a spiritual life together, where we've served the community together.
And so I'm labeling these are four stones that we've built this year.
The first is the stone of spiritual growth.
These are the things, some of them, that we've done.
We started with a week of prayer in January.
We learned how to bless others.
And I imagine that many of you still know how to say it with me right now.
We began with prayer, we listened, we eat, we serve, we share.
We spent 30 weeks on the Believe series, learning to think, act,
and live like Jesus.
We gathered around the table on Wednesday nights for dinner for the first time in a few years.
And most importantly, we saw five people follow Jesus into the waters of baptism.
This is the stone of people being transformed.
The second stone is the stone of radical hospitality.
We completed the elevator project.
If there was like nothing else that we did this year, that felt like a huge weight off.
We ensured that everyone, regardless of mobility, has a seat at the table.
We welcomed hundreds of family to the Easter egg hunt, over 500 neighbors to our trunk retreat.
We handed out Bibles and a gospel in a box to dozens of people.
We are trying to be a city on a hill.
with our lights shining bright.
The third stone is the stone of compassion and care.
There is a lot of need in Fairfax County, it turns out.
And so through power packs, we provided 600 weekend meals for hungry students.
We collected hundreds of pounds of food for Echo.
We stood with the vulnerable through our assist pregnancy center.
And we literally provided warmth during
a week for the hypothermia shelter.
God calls us to minister to the week and to the lowly and you showed up to do that.
The fourth stone is the stone of sending and support.
Finally, we looked beyond our walls and we sent 21 care packages to our college students and 73 shoeboxes around the world with Operation Christmas Child
The generosity we showed was over $11,000 for supporting local and international missions from Dresden, Germany to Marymount University.
We gave $20,000 to support our networks and the faithfulness of this small church is now echoing around the globe.
I am proud of who we are and what we've accomplished.
And most importantly, what God has done
through you.
The ways in which you've shown up this year is worth remembering.
It's worth taking a moment to stop, to think back before we rush into the next year, and to just simply remember what God has done in the life of our church.
So without further ado, we have a slideshow.
Having hair.
of God.
Let's all stand and thank the Lord for this past year, for His grace is mercy and His amazing love and the joy He brings for this time of period.
Thank you for coming today.
As you, you know, finish up the year and you head into the new year.
I'm serious.
Take a minute.
Take a few minutes.
Like think back over your life.
Think back over this year.
And simply ask, where have I seen God on the moon?
Remember it.
Find a way to remember it.
Take a stone or an ornament or something.
put it somewhere in your life so that you don't forget.
As we go out today, we do have a very happy new year and go in the peace of Christ.